My name is Tim Monroe and I am a
QuickTime engineer and I will be joined
about halfway through by David Underwood.
And this is the first of four
sessions that I think should
be of interest to you today.
This is an introductory session
talking about QTKit and our media APIs.
After this,
session 712 in this room is a more
advanced look at QTKit and that's
where we'll talk about QuickTime 10.
So if you have issues about
QuickTime 10 or questions or
want to see how to work with it,
come to that session.
I've also highlighted
here a noon talk by Dr.
Michael Johnson from Pixar Studios.
He was one of the very early
adopters of QTKit and I don't know
if he's going to be talking about
it in this particular talk at noon.
But he's a great speaker and
if you haven't heard him talk,
definitely go to that noon time talk.
And then later today,
we have a lab in the Graphics and
Media Lab starting at 2 and ending
whenever anyone is done with a question.
So I highly encourage you to
go to the following session,
the noon time talk,
and if you have other questions,
come to the lab.
So what are we going to talk about today?
QTKit, as you probably know,
is a Cocoa framework that is
designed for working with media
files and media generating devices.
That's just a fancy way of saying
that we can play back existing movies
and we can also capture movies from
devices attached to your computer.
Now to say that it's a
Cocoa framework means that it
exposes a set of Objective-C classes.
And we do all the nice
Cocoa goodness with notifications
and delegate methods and all that.
So if you're experienced with Cocoa,
this will have the kind of
API flavor that you're used to.
QTKit, as you've heard in several of
the State of the Union sessions,
is now the preferred way to handle
media or media capture on Mac OS X.
It really permeates all of Snow Leopard.
Anywhere in Snow Leopard that
you see a movie being played
back or a thumbnail of a movie,
chances are very good that
QTKit is being used to generate
that playback or that thumbnail.
Similarly,
anywhere that you take a picture or
capture a movie in the operating system
or the Apple-supplied application,
again,
chances are very good that QTKit is
what's doing the work under the hood.
It's also widely used in a
lot of third-party apps and
some in-house applications.
Again, Pixar has been using QTKit for a
number of years and it's become
part of their standard workflow.
So all of their recent movies have
been built with a process that
crucially involves QTKit applications.
So what are we going to
talk about in this session?
First, I'm going to give an overview of
QTKit's playback and editing classes.
Then I will actually show you here
on stage how to build a simple movie
playback application from scratch.
It really is, you know, 20 lines of code,
not even that.
I'll talk a little bit about
how QTKit integrates nicely
with other graphics technologies
on the Mac OS X platform,
in particular core image
and core animation.
Then we'll shift our attention
to talk about capture.
David will come up and talk
about the various capture related
classes and again he will build
a simple capture application.
So let's start talking about QTKit.
These are the basic classes that
you will use for movie playback.
As you know,
QTKit is a very thin wrapper on
top of the QuickTime framework.
And again, as you probably know,
QuickTime works with
things called movies.
A movie is composed of various tracks,
and tracks are associated
with things called media.
So we have three classes in QTKit,
namely QTMovie, QTTrack, and QTMedia,
which are object-oriented
wrappers on those concepts.
And as you can also see,
I've listed QTMovieView,
which is a subclass of NSView,
which is used to display
and control a movie.
Here's just some random QT movie
methods that I've selected.
One thing you need to do if you want
to play back a movie is open it.
And so we have the initWithUrl method.
You pass in a URL and we'll
pass you back a QT movie object.
We also have initWithFile
which I'll use in a little bit.
And there are several other init
methods that are of interest.
If you want to set an attribute,
change a property of a QT movie object,
you will use the set
attribute for key method.
You pass in the desired value and the
key and the attribute will be changed.
There are also some basic control,
movie control methods.
So play, if you want to change the time,
we have go to beginning, go to end,
or you can specify a certain
time that you want to go to.
And finally,
a very popular set of APIs is those
that give you images of the movie.
So here I've listed current frame image.
We'll pass you back an NSImage of
the movie at whatever time it's at.
QTMovieView, as I said,
is a subclass of NSView that you use to
display and control a movie in the UI.
Well, once you have a QTMovieView,
the basic thing you want to
do on it is set the movie.
So you'll set movie and pass in a
QTMovie and then that will be the movie
that's displayed in the movie view.
If you have a movie view and
you want to find out what
movie is associated with it,
just call the movie method and that
will tell you what the current movie is.
There are also a number of IB action
methods that allow you to edit the movie.
Here I will cut, copy, paste.
And lastly, as you know,
QuickTime can put that little
controller bar underneath a movie that
allows the user to scrub in the movie
or pause it or adjust the volume.
If you want to hide that, you can use the
SetControllerVisible method.
Now aside from the various
classes that QTKit exposes,
it also defines some data structures.
In particular,
we use data structures and not
objects to work with movie times.
The top one here is QTTime,
a very simple structure,
consists of three fields.
The one to start with
is the time scale field.
That essentially is the number of
units per second that you want to work
with when you're talking about time.
The time value field is the
number of those things in this
duration or this point in time.
and QTTimeRange as you can see
is just two QTTime structures,
one of which indicates the start
time of the range and the other which
indicates the duration of the range.
We have a large number of functions,
not methods,
that you can use to operate on
QT times and QT time ranges.
One that you'll call all
the time is QTMakeTime.
You pass in the desired time value
and the time scale you want to use
and it will pass you back at QT time.
If you want to increment
two QT time structures,
we have the QTTimeIncrement.
There's also QTTimeDecrement that
you can use to subtract two QT times.
If you have a QT time and
you want to rescale it,
you want to change the time scale field,
we can do that for you because
it's a little bit tricky.
We have the QTMakeTimeScaled function.
And finally,
if you want to make a time range,
pass us in the two QT times and
we'll pass you back a QT time range.
So that's a good intro to what
QTKit has to offer in terms of playback.
Let's actually see how easy it is
to build a playback application.
So if I could go to the demo machine,
please.
- Can I have demo one please?
Here we go.
Alright, so I'm just going to launch,
not dash code, but Xcode.
So here's Xcode and I'm just
going to create a new project.
And I want to build a
Cocoa document-based application so
that I can open one or more movies and
display them in Windows on the screen.
And I'll just call this WWDC Demo.
And here's our basic project file.
Now the first thing you want to do is
add QTKit to your linked frameworks.
So I'll come down here and
say add an existing framework.
And then I'll look down here in
my list of frameworks for QTKit.
There it is.
And add that to my project.
Now the next thing you want to do before
you forget is set the kinds of files you
want your application to be able to open.
So I will select the target and do get
information and then under properties,
I can set the kind of
extensions I want it to open.
In this case I'll let it open MOV files,
which are of type MOV.
And I want to add one more type.
Let's call it, let's open m4v files,
and I don't know their OS types,
so I'll just say mpeg,
which may or may not be right.
We're good there.
Okay, so let's look at our classes.
Instead of importing Cocoa,
we can import QTKit.
and QTKit.h.
And I'm going to have one
instance variable in this sample.
It'll be...
of type QTMovieView,
and let's just call it MovieView.
Okay, now let's set up the user
interface by finding our nib file.
So this is our default document layout.
Let's get rid of this text box here.
And over here in the library,
we have this QTMovieView,
QuickTime Movie View.
So we'll drag that over into our window,
make it a little bigger.
Now, if all goes well,
I should be able to
just control click here,
and there it is, movie view,
because I tagged it in my
header file as an IB outlet.
And I think I'm done there.
Now all we need to do is add some
code to the .m file to find a file
and open it and set it in that view.
So let's come down here to
MovieControllerDidLoadNib.
And we want to do the following:
If the user has selected a file,
so then self file name will have a value.
So if there is a file name here,
I want to open that file.
So I'll create a QT movie.
And I'll do movie with file.
And I'll just pass in
that same file name.
And error,
I won't bother passing in any error
because I trust QTKit not to fail.
And what do I want to do?
Then I want to set that
movie on the movie view.
Set movie and that will, whoops, I need a
So I've got a movie,
I'll set it on the view.
And this should work.
Let's try building this.
Build succeeded.
Let's try running it.
Let's open a movie.
Go to the desktop.
I have a movie there.
And let's see if it plays.
So that was pretty easy.
With that little bit of code,
we're able to go out,
select a movie file from the
desktop or from anywhere,
and have it play back here.
Now let's look at the Edit menu.
All the good editing stuff is disabled.
We can fix that very easily
with one nice line of code,
and we can do that like this.
Let us change one of the
properties of the movie.
So we'll use our Set attribute.
And I want that value
to be in this number.
Number with Bool.
And I want the value to be yes.
And the attribute that I wanted to
change is the QTMovieEditable attribute.
And let's see if that builds.
Yep, now let's run that.
Now let's try opening that same file.
And here my edit menu is enabled.
So we could go in here and
select a portion of it,
come up and cut it.
Maybe that goes better here
at the end of the movie,
so we'll come over there and paste it in.
Director says that sucks,
so let's undo that.
We'll undo the paste,
undo the original cut.
So you see we have basically
unlimited stack of undo's.
You can do a lot of
stuff and then undo it.
So let's quit that.
And if I could go back to slides please.
So this is the code that we just built.
We selected a file,
we called movieWithFile to open that file
and get a Qt movie associated with it.
We set the attribute,
its editability to be on,
and then we set that movie into the view.
It's really very simple and we could
open anything that was a .mov or
an m4v and it would play back fine.
Now what if we had a movie open and
we want to export it or create a
movie that has a different format.
So I've got some movies but
I want to make them playable
on my iPod for instance.
To do that we want to export
the movie in a different format.
And it's really very simple.
We would use the
QTMovieWriteToFileWithAttributes method.
And the idea is we will set
up a dictionary that indicates
the desired operations we
want QTKit to perform on it.
And if you look at the dictionary
here I'm saying yes I want you to
export it and the export type is 3GPP.
So if I were to run this code on one
of the movies that I opened I would get
a movie whose size was appropriate for
playback on some of the devices we have.
And the audio would be
transcoded into AAC.
That would play back 90% of the movie.
nicely on your devices.
[Transcript missing]
So here are the five available
types of images you can request.
You can get back an NSImage if you want.
You can also get back a CGImageRef,
a CIImage, a CVPixelBuffer,
or an OpenGLTexture.
So here is a very simple snippet
showing how with an open movie I can
get a CG image ref at a specific time.
And in this case, as you can see,
I'm asking for the image
at the current time.
So as you can see,
basic playback and editing with
QTKit is really very simple.
Like all Cocoa frameworks,
it's designed to make
the easy things easy.
One nice thing about QTKit is
that it plays well with others.
It is able to interact nicely with
core animation and core image.
To interact with core animation,
we define two classes that allow
you to do things in layers.
We have a QTMovie layer where you
will have a QTMovie and then say,
"I want you to play it back in
this layer." And then that layer
could be part of a core animation
presentation that you have.
Also, if you are doing capture through
a device attached to the machine,
you can preview what is being
captured in a QTCapture layer.
We also, because we integrate
nicely with core animation,
make it very easy for you to
apply core image filters to
the output in a movie view.
And so let's take a quick look at that.
If I could go back to the demo machine.
Let me just open this existing project.
And the basic idea here is very simple.
Let me open my nib file.
Here's my user interface.
It's got a button to
start and stop the movie,
and it's got a pop-up menu where I'll
be able to pick a core image filter.
This is a QT Movie View right
in the center there.
Let's take a look at
this particular panel.
Notice that the Movie View has a checkbox
next to the "Once Core Animation" layer.
This is telling the underlying frameworks
that when it creates this Movie View,
it wants there to be a layer
that is associated with that.
What's called a "layer-backed
view." Since this view will
now have a layer in it,
we can do nice things.
Let's quit that and actually
look at the code here.
Scroll down a little bit.
And it's actually very simple.
Let's suppose that we have an array
with a bunch of filters in it.
We can then set those filters on the
layer associated with the movie view.
And it's really that simple.
So let's run this and see what
sorts of things we can do.
We'll open a movie.
Actually, let's just play this through
all the way because this,
well, let's not.
Let's start it playing.
And I can come over here
and select a filter.
Here is a posterized,
we can do some dot screens.
So we can take any one of
the available CI filters and
apply it to our movie view.
Okay, so it's really just that simple.
If I could go back to slides.
So let me just close my portion of it.
You've seen that it's very,
very simple to open a movie,
stick it in a movie view,
and let the user work with it from there.
The two classes, QTMovie and QTMovieView,
do 99% of what you want if you
want simple movie playback.
And as we saw,
QTKit is a good citizen in the
whole graphics architecture.
We vend layer classes and we're
able to apply filters to our view
in a very straightforward way.
So with that,
I'd like to bring up David Underwood,
who will talk to us about the
capture capabilities in QTKit.
Thank you, Tim.
So at the high level,
what QTKit Capture enables you to do is
enables your application to grab media
from some sort of real-time media source.
And we have a couple of
examples of that here.
So a really good example is the EyeSight,
which is a camera that we have built into
almost all the computers that we sell.
But there are other
sources you can think of,
too.
So for instance,
consumer and professional
camcorders and tape decks,
and also any number of audio sources like
microphones and different audio decks.
And QTKit Capture lets you take the media
that you get from those various sources
and apply it to various destinations.
So a good example is a QuickTime movie.
Maybe you want to record it to disk.
You also probably want to
preview what you're capturing,
so you want to have an
audio and a video preview.
And in addition,
you want to capture to-- maybe
your application needs to do
some special processing on
the samples you're capturing.
So QTKit Capture will also give you
raw decompressed audio and also video
samples that you can use for any
additional processing that you need.
So when we talk about these
sources and destinations,
we can kind of visualize
them as inputs and outputs.
And we just have a conceptual
diagram of this here.
This is just an example use case
involving inputs and outputs.
So say you have a camera and a microphone
attached to your computer somehow.
And you want to capture that
and you want to send it to,
well, say, a window on the screen.
Maybe you want to preview the audio
through the speakers on your computer.
And you want to record it
to a QuickTime movie file.
So QTKit Capture represents this
concept of inputs and outputs
directly using classes that
are defined in the framework.
So your inputs are represented
by the QTCapture input class and
your outputs are represented by,
logically, the QTCapture output class.
And then we also have this
thing in the middle here,
which we call a QTCapture session.
And this class is very important.
Effectively,
what this does is this is the traffic
manager for everything that's going on.
It's responsible for getting that
media data from all of the inputs
and then distributing it out.
So in this example,
you see we have both an audio and a
video stream coming in on the input.
But one of the outputs,
which is just to a window on the screen,
it only needs video.
So the QTCapture session knows that
and just gives it the video stream.
The speakers only want audio.
So likewise,
the capture session gives it audio.
And then finally, we have our movie file.
And that wants all of the media.
So the capture session knows to
distribute both bits of media to that.
QT Capture Output are
just abstract classes.
They define a general interface for
how you would hook these things up.
QT Kit Capture provides a number
of actual concrete classes that
are subclasses of QT Capture
Input and QT Capture Output that
you'll use in your application.
So, for QT Capture Input we
have the most obvious case,
which is we provide a
QT Capture Device Input,
and this will allow you to use any
device that's attached or built
into the computer as a media source.
We also, for outputs,
we provide all sorts of things to you.
So, one of them is if you want to
write to a QuickTime movie file,
you would use QT Capture
Movie File Output.
If you need to preview
your video or your audio,
we have a few preview outputs
that you can use to do that.
And finally,
we have outputs that give you raw data,
so the decompressed video output
and the audio data output.
So if you take a look at these,
depending on what your
application needs to do,
you can use these concrete
input and output classes,
basically like building blocks.
So you assemble them together
to create the use case that your
application is interested in.
So in this one example
that I'm gonna show you,
say we take just these classes
that I've highlighted here.
So the device input,
and say you want to record to a movie
file and preview what you're doing.
So you'd use the movie file output
and these two preview outputs.
And going back to one of these
flow chart diagrams again,
it would look something like this.
So say you have a camera and
a microphone in your computer,
you would use QT capture
device input for each of those,
plug those into the capture session,
which controls the traffic
coming out of them.
And then your output destinations
would be a decompressed video output,
an audio preview output,
and a movie file output.
So to show you an example
of how to do this in code,
I'm going to go ahead and build
an application for you on stage.
It'll be a very simple
movie recording application.
You can actually see a more
complete version of this
sample on our developer page.
It's been up for a while now,
so if you want to follow along,
you can open it now,
or if you want to review it later,
it's available at this URL.
And this application
basically does one thing.
It captures media and records
it to a QuickTime file.
So before I dive into code,
I'm just going to go
over some basic steps,
tell you exactly what you might
need to do when you build one
of these capture applications.
And even though we're
just doing recording here,
these steps really will apply
to any QTKit capture application
that you might want to build.
And really, at the highest level,
these steps are very simple.
You're going to build
your capture session,
so get your outputs and
your inputs in your session,
and then you're going to
use the capture session.
Sounds easy, right?
So going to a little more detail,
one of the very first things you're
going to need to do in building a
capture session is you're going to
want to find a device to record from.
The way you do this is you
use the QTCaptureDevice class,
and this is a class whose
instances represent all of the
devices that are attached to or
built into the user's computer.
Once you've found the
device that you want,
and there are a lot of ways to do that,
and I'll show you one of them,
you need to open the
device to capture it.
And what that means is you're effectively
telling the underlying device system,
"I'm about to grab data from this device,
so allocate any resources you need
to do this and make sure that this
device is as available as it can be
for the application." And this is
very important because devices on
the system are a shared resource.
Many applications can access
them at the same time.
And so the application needs to be
explicit to the device system about
when it's using the device so that it
doesn't hog the resource unnecessarily.
Once you've found your device,
now you're ready to build your
QT Capture session itself.
The way you do that is you create
instances of subclasses of QT Capture
input and QT Capture output.
In the example I'm about to show you,
this will be pretty simple.
We're just going to use QT Capture device
input and QT Capture movie file output.
We'll capture from a device
and output to a movie file.
Once you have those instances,
you're going to add them
to your QT Capture session,
which is again going
to do all the traffic.
And finally, we have another class
called a QT Capture View,
which is somewhat similar to a
QT Movie View that Tim showed you.
It's just going to do all of the work
of automatically previewing the video
going through your capture session.
And you're going to interact with
this class and code very little.
Most of it's just going to
be an Interface Builder,
and I'll show you that in a second.
So now you have your QTCapture session.
Now you actually want to use it.
Your application's supposed
to do something with it.
So first you tell it to start running.
And what this does is this tells it to
start pulling media data out of those
inputs that are hooked up to it and to
start distributing it out to its outputs.
And it'll keep on doing that
until you tell it to stop.
Then we're gonna go and talk to the movie
file output that we added to the session.
And since this is the class
that's responsible for
actually recording the file,
we're gonna tell it to start
recording and then tell it to
stop recording sometime later,
depending on what the user does.
And then finally,
we need to implement a delegate
method on the movie file output
that will get called back when the
file's actually finished writing.
And I'll show you how that
works concretely in a second.
So if we could go to the demo machine,
please.
All right, I'm just gonna close this off.
So we're gonna build this
roughly from scratch.
I'm gonna cheat a little more than
Tim did and I'll have some snippets of
code here that I already have written.
So we're gonna go into Xcode
and create a new project.
And this is gonna be a very simple,
single-windowed application.
So I'm just gonna make
a new Cocoa application.
And let's call it My Recorder.
And just as before,
the very first thing that
we need to do is add the
QTKit framework to our project.
Now we're good there.
And because this is a
relatively simple application,
really we just have a user interface
and the actual capture objects in QTKit.
So the model objects,
QTCaptureSession and
the inputs and outputs.
So we really just need one controller
class that ties it all together.
And we're going to create that
here now by making a new file.
And we're going to define
a new Objective-C class.
And let's call it MyRecorderController.
And let's just go ahead and define
what we'll see in the header file.
Let's look at the general
interface of this class.
I'm just gonna get rid
of that template stuff.
dragging what we need in the header file.
So you see there's not a whole lot to it.
One thing we have in here is
we have an interface builder
outlet to a QT capture view,
and we're gonna need that so
we can associate the capture
view with the session in code.
You notice we also have a few instance
variables for those QTKitCapture
objects that we're going to create.
So we have a QTCaptureSession object,
a movie file output, and a device input.
Finally,
this controller class is defining a
couple of action methods that we're gonna
hook up to buttons in our user interface,
and this will be what the user
uses to actually tell us to start
recording and to stop recording.
So I'm just gonna save that.
And now that we have
that header file defined,
let's go ahead and build
the user interface,
the application.
So let's open our nib file.
And right here in the
Interface Builder library,
right next to QT Movie View,
we see we also have a QT Capture View.
And just as before, we'll drag that out.
Nicely.
And we're also gonna add a couple
of buttons to this interface,
and those are gonna let
the user control recording.
So let's have a stop
button and a start button,
and we'll line those up.
And finally,
I'm just going to set some resizing
attributes in Interface Builder
so that the window resizes nicely
and the controls are laid out.
So I'm going to pin these two buttons
in the lower right-hand corner,
and I'm going to make it so the capture
view resizes nicely with the window also.
Finally, we need an instance of our
controller class to hook up the
user interface to the capture.
But luckily we can do that
right in the nib file.
And the way we do that is we get an
object from the Interface Builder
library and drag that into the nib file.
and that object needs to be an
instance of our controller class.
So we go to the custom class pane of
the inspector and we say that this is an
instance of my recorder controller and
you see Interface Builder automatically
found all the outlets and actions.
And so we'll hook this
up to our capture view.
There we go.
And we'll hook up the
start and stop buttons.
We're good to go.
So let's write some code.
So we'll open up the implementation
file from iRecorder Controller.
So if you recall,
I outlined two basic steps for
working with QTKit Capture,
which is to set up your capture session
and then run it and do something with it.
So a logical place to do this setup,
since our controller class is being
instantiated inside of a nib file,
is inside of the AwakeFromNib method.
And this method is called for any class
that's instantiated inside of a nib file,
so it'll just get called
when the nib is first loaded.
And we'll start doing some setup.
So again,
the very first thing we're gonna wanna
do is create our QT Capture Session.
And that's just simply a matter of
doing QT Capture Session alloc init.
It's all you need to do.
Then we need to find a device.
So we've simplified this a little bit
over the sample that's available online.
And right now we're just
going to record video.
So I'm going to look for a video device.
One of the ways to do
that is to ask the system,
"What's the default video
input device on the system?
What's the most logical one that could
be used by default?" So for example,
on the iMac or a laptop,
that would be the built-in iSight.
And the way that we get that
is with the class method,
default input device with media type.
And the media type you pass
here is what kind of media the
device is going to give you.
So in this case, we want video.
Now that we've found our device,
we need to open it.
Again, to tell the device system
I'm about to capture from this device,
allocate any resources
that you need to do that.
And we do that with the
QTCaptureDevice.open
method on that instance.
This method also returns an
NSError optionally if you want to
find out if it failed for some reason,
and it returns a Boolean value just
if you need to check the failure case.
So one very important thing,
it's the reason why it's
highlighted in this code,
often in these demos we
leave out error handling,
but your application absolutely
must check to see if open succeeded.
And the reason for that is that
there is always a rational reason
that the open method can fail.
So for example, say the user had a camera
plugged into the computer,
and you went and called this method
while that camera was plugged in,
and it returned the
QTCaptureDevice for that camera.
And then between this method
finishing and you calling open,
the user, you know, they like to try to
break your application.
They go and yank the
camera out of the system.
Well, that's not the case.
So the QTCaptureDevice instance,
the object is still valid,
but the device is gone.
So if you try to open
it on the device system,
it's going to fail.
And so your application always needs
to be able to deal with that case.
So in this case,
it's not all that elegant,
but basically we say, okay,
this isn't useful anymore,
so we'll nil it out.
Probably you would want to
display an error message or
something similar to that.
So now that we've found our device,
we can create our inputs and our outputs
and add them to the capture session.
So the first input we'll create
is a QTCaptureDevice input,
and we just create that around
the device that we just found
using the initWithDevice method.
Once we've done that,
QT Capture Session has
an addInput method.
And so we take that input that we just
created and add it to the session.
And this also returns an error
that you can optionally check.
For our output case,
we create a QTCaptureMovieFile output,
which will be responsible for
writing the data to the file.
And again, we just initialize that by
saying alloc init and adding it
as an output using the addOutput
method to the QTCapture session.
One additional thing you
need to do with the MovieFile
output is set a delegate on it.
In this case,
we'll just set ourselves as the delegate.
And the reason for this is that
QTCaptureMovieFile output will
call back the delegate with
actually all sorts of information.
It exposes a lot of delegate methods.
So for example,
it tells the delegate when it's
started to write to the file.
It even actually has a delegate
method that's called for every
single media sample that comes
into the MovieFile output.
So if you wanna control really precisely
when to start and stop recording,
you can do that.
But in this case, we only care about one
thing that's very important,
which is we wanna find out when
the file is finished writing.
And I'll show you in a second why that
has to be done with the delegate method
when I show you the delegate method.
Just sort of to write sane
amounts of data to the disk,
what we also want to do is compress
the media that we're writing through.
And the way that we do that is using
this QT compression options API,
which is a very simple API in
QTKit Capture for choosing what sorts
of options for compression you might
want to use for a piece of media.
And basically it just exposes
a bunch of compression presets.
So for example, in this case,
we're going to create a QT compression
options object with just this preset,
which is we just want to do
kind of small H.264 video.
So we don't really care
about it being big.
We just want to record something,
have it not take up very much space.
And it will compress that live
as you're recording to disk.
And when you get that
QT compression options object,
you're going to apply it
to the movie file output.
And this goes into a little
more detail than I'm going
to go into in this session,
but you have to do it for these
QT capture connection objects.
And if you're really curious to
know what these objects are for,
what their significance is,
stick around for the next session,
the advanced session
will go into more detail.
But I'll just suffice it to say here,
this is how you would apply
these compression options
to this movie file output.
Finally, we want to preview the
video we're recording,
so we add an outlet and interface
builder to our capture view.
And we're just going to say,
tell the capture view,
this is your capture session,
which was the capture session
we created at the beginning.
And finally, we have everything set up,
so we tell the capture session,
start running.
Start grabbing media from the
camera and sending it out to
where you need to send it.
So our capture session has been built.
And whenever you set things up,
you also need to clean them up.
Always important.
And we do this in two ways.
So first, actually I forgot to do
this in the nib file,
so I'm gonna do this pretty quickly.
We're going to make our controller the
delegate of our application's window.
- And what this enables us to do is,
when the window is about to close,
it's gonna call this method.
And this is a good opportunity to clean
up some of the really critical shared
resources that our application is using.
So most importantly,
this is our opportunity to close that
QT Capture device that we opened earlier.
And this is really
important because again,
we don't wanna keep it open
for longer than we need to,
so the window closing is a good
time 'cause the user obviously
doesn't need it anymore.
In addition,
your application should basically always
close a QT Capture device that it opens.
So wherever you call open,
you need a matched call to close
elsewhere in your application
when you're done with it.
This is also a good time to tell the
capture session to stop running because
that also just uses a lot of CPU and
bus bandwidth and we don't need it
anymore 'cause the window's gonna close.
Finally, in our DLLIC method,
this is where we just go and do
the standard Cocoa releasing of
the objects that we've created.
So we have our setup code and
we have our teardown code.
Let's actually use this thing.
And that turns out to be
pretty simple in this case.
Here are two Interface Builder actions.
The start recording action simply
tells the movie file output
record to the file at this URL.
And we just have a hard
coded path in this case,
but you could obviously bring up the
user interface to make it more complex.
And then the stop recording method says,
okay,
just don't record to anything anymore.
You pass nil.
An important thing to note about this
particular method is when you call this,
it will effectively return immediately.
So even if the file isn't
finished writing yet,
this method is still going to return.
And the reason for this is
that QTKit capture is very
heavily asynchronous and
very heavily multithreaded.
And sometimes, for example,
with a QuickTime movie file,
even when you've run out of data
that you need to write to the file,
so media data,
there's some extra stuff you need
in that file so that it'll open
correctly as a QuickTime file.
So for example,
QuickTime movies need a sample table so
that they know where the media samples
are and what times they correspond to,
so the user can play
and scrub efficiently.
And that might take
some time to write out,
but we don't want to block the main
user interface while that's happening.
So even if the file isn't
actually finished yet,
this is going to return immediately.
But your application most likely
wants to do something with that
file after it's been finished,
so you need to find
out when it's finished.
So you need to find
And it really was finished so
that that file can be open.
And the way that you do that,
if you recall,
we set ourselves as a delegate
on the movie file output before,
is you implement this delegate method.
Just capture output,
did finish recording to output file
URL for connections due to error.
So it's a bit of a mouthful,
but in this case,
we don't have to do a whole lot with it.
It's pretty simple.
We're just going to tell
the shared NS workspace,
"Open up this file," which we'll
just launch it in QuickTime Player,
because we know it's finished
and we know it can be played,
and we'll open it in
a player application.
So we'll save that and build it,
and that should be everything we need.
Oh, no, no it's not.
Ah, I know what I forgot to do.
Just as it's very important to
include QTKit in your project,
you also need to bring in the header.
There we go.
And here's our application.
And you see we have our
QT capture view up here.
And it's previewing what we have.
And our faithful test subject here
for all of our videos today is going
to be this little stuffed elephant.
Say hello.
And we'll just record a little
movie with the elephant in it.
So let's start this thing.
And now it's recording the file.
And I will make him turn
in a circle or something.
Yeah.
Sure, that's pretty good.
And we'll hit stop.
And there you go.
The movie was recorded to
a file and we automatically
launched it in QuickTime Player.
And there it is.
And you'll notice it's
a little cheesy here,
seeing my hand here in the
frame turning the elephant.
That's not very convincing.
He doesn't look like he's
moving under his own power.
We'll show you how to fix
that problem in a second.
And just to show that
our compression worked,
you'll see that if we open the
info window in QuickTime Player,
you'll see that we are in fact using
the H.264 decoder to decode this movie.
So that's what it was
written out to file as.
So we got a pretty small file for this.
So, you know, this is a tiny file for
this quality of video.
And that's a very simple capture
application with QTKit Capture API.
So if I could go back to slides, please.
So that was just one example of the
way that you can take the concrete
classes that QTKit Capture gives you
and assemble them together to meet a
certain use case of the application.
Well,
say you have something more creative
in mind than writing to disk.
Say you have something more open-ended.
Well,
we can use a different set of classes
and use those as building blocks.
So again, we're just gonna kind of pick
and choose out of what's given.
And again,
we'll use a QTCapture device input.
It's really our only choice.
And we're gonna use this different
class called the QTCapture
decompressed video output.
What this class allows you to do is
get each individual frame of video
that comes from the capture session as
it's captured as quickly as possible.
It tries to give them to you.
If the device that you were capturing
from happens to do video compression,
for example, it's a DV camcorder,
that's compressed video,
this output will decompress that
video for you so you'll always
get raw pixels that you can use
for various types of processing.
And what this class,
this class gives you the video in
the form of the CV image buffer type,
which is a common class that's
exposed by core video that
contains buffers of video.
It's very appropriate for video buffers.
And again,
the flow chart here looks pretty
similar to what you've seen before.
On the input end,
we have our device input.
The capture session is
distributing the traffic.
And on the output end,
we have our decompressed video output.
[Transcript missing]
Thanks.
Okay, so I'll just close this off.
And I'm not gonna build this
one completely from scratch.
I'll walk through most of the code.
And the reason for that is 'cause you've,
a lot of the basic steps
are exactly the same.
I don't need to show them to you again.
I'll show you where they're the same,
but not so much different.
So I'm just gonna open this project
and this is the same one that's
available on the developer page.
And the first thing we'll look at
actually is the user interface.
So, gonna open up our new file.
And unlike the previous
application that I built,
this one is document-based.
So you'll actually be able to
have multiple animations going
at the same time and save them
out to separate documents.
And in our user interface,
it's not that much more complex.
On the left side here,
we have again our QT Capture view.
And this is gonna show us
what's happening live in
front of the camera right now.
But then on the right side,
we have a QT Movie view.
And that's gonna show us the
actual movie that we've assembled
so far in our application.
Finally, we have a button here,
and this button's gonna be responsible
for taking whatever's currently in the
scene and appending it over into the
movie so we can build our animation.
So, pretty simple.
So let's take a quick look
at the actual implementation.
And again, this method is called,
it's similar to Awake from Nib,
it's called in a document-based
application whenever the Nib file
is actually loaded and the user
interface is about to come up.
And you'll notice again,
we do very similar things
with QTKit Capture.
We create a capture session,
we get our default QTCapture device
and we open it and very importantly,
check whether that succeeded or not.
And in this case,
we're a little friendlier actually,
we bring up an alert if
that failed for some reason,
so it's a little more
helpful to the user.
We make our device input,
we add it to the session.
and the new thing here is we create
our decompressed video output
instead of the file output since
we're not writing directly to file.
And this is gonna do the meat
of the work of our application.
But similarly to the movie file output,
we're gonna set a delegate on this class.
And in this case,
the delegate is going to get
called back every single time the
output receives a new video frame.
So this is what you're gonna use
to actually grab those raw frames.
And we add that as an
output to the session.
Hook up the capture view, same thing,
and we start the session running.
So this should look very,
very similar to what I did before,
sort of swapping out parts
basically in our setup for a
different type of use case.
You might have also seen up here
is a little bit of extra work,
which is we're actually
going to create a QT movie.
And this is the movie object
that we're going to write into
to assemble our animation.
And we have a special initializer here,
which defines some data in memory
that we can write into so the
movie knows where to store those
samples as we add them to it.
Again, we also have basically
the same cleanup code.
Very importantly, you need to close the
device if you've opened it.
And we wanna stop the capture session
from running 'cause there's no
reason to be using those resources.
This code is responsible for
reading and writing files.
It's basic NS document stuff,
but not too important for showing
you exactly what you need to do.
And so now you have a capture
session and you're running it and
here's where we start using it.
And this is a little more complex
than what I showed you in the
simple recording application,
but again, it's actually not so complex.
So the main thing you want to do is
you need to implement this method,
and this is the delegate method that
gets called by the decompressed video
output whenever it gets a video frame.
It's called capture output,
did output video frame with
sample buffer from connection.
And the parameter to this that
we're interested in is the CV image
buffer ref that it's giving us
that's already all packaged up.
And all we're gonna do with it is we
have an instance variable defined for
this class called CurrentImageBuffer.
And we're just gonna store the
video frame that was given to
us in this instance variable.
There's one additional little
bit of complexity here,
which is that this method will
almost definitely not be called
on your application's main thread.
And again,
the reason for this is that QTKit Capture
tries to do everything very,
very asynchronously and is very
heavily multithreaded and takes a lot
of advantage of multiple processors.
So it's not going to block up
your main thread by default,
calling you back here.
So the way that you need to deal with
that is you just have to be careful
and make sure that if two threads are
accessing the same instance variable,
which is the case here,
you need to lock around
that instance variable.
And we do this a very simple way here,
which is we use the
Objective-C @Synchronized block in
order to protect that segment of code.
You could also use NSLock or Pthread
mutexes or anything that you think would
be more efficient for your application,
but here's just a simple example.
And again, since we're just capturing the
current state of the scene to
add a frame to our animation,
we're really only interested in the
latest image buffer that's come in.
So there will be image buffers
coming in constantly all the time,
but if the user doesn't
click that Add Frame button,
we don't really care about the old ones.
We just throw them out.
And that's the reason why we just store
this latest one in the instance variable.
So now that we have that going,
we have the actual Interface
Builder action called Add Frame.
The very first thing we do is we retrieve
whatever that latest image buffer was.
And again, because this is going to be
on your main thread instead
of the different thread that
QTKit Capture is calling you back on,
you just need to be a little bit
careful and put the synchronized block
around here so that you don't get the,
you don't read back from that variable
when it's in an inconsistent state.
And now that you have an image buffer,
you're going to convert it to an
NSImage and then use this QTMovie API,
which is,
QTMovie actually has many APIs and
encourage you to look at it,
which is called
AddImageForDurationWithAttributes.
And this is a method
that takes an NSImage,
in this case,
the one that we've just created,
and you specify how long
it's gonna last in the movie.
And then maybe you can specify
how it'll be compressed.
So in this case, again,
just save a little bit of space.
We're gonna JPEG compress it.
Excuse me.
And that's pretty much
all there is to it.
So we've gotten our CVImageBufferRefs
live from the camera and we're
just gonna add them to the movie.
And let's go ahead and build that.
Okay, and let's run this.
And so again, we see on the left,
we have our live video preview.
And on the right,
we have the movie that we're gonna build.
So you remember before I said
we had a bit of a problem.
My movie was really cheesy
'cause my hand was in it.
You could tell that the elephant
wasn't moving under his own power.
We're gonna fix that.
So maybe he'll start turning around.
Turn around a little bit more.
And something about the camera is
really making the elephant angry,
so he's going to stampede towards it.
Okay, anyway, I could do this for hours.
But what you can see here is we
have a pretty cool animated movie.
I mean,
you could really go to town with this,
just with a pretty simple
piece of sample code,
just bringing these few
classes together and doing
something interesting with them.
You can actually write a pretty
entertaining application.
And because this is
just a QT movie object,
we can go ahead and save this file out.
And we'll just call it Elephant.
Oh, that needs to be spelled right.
And you'll see we just have a movie now
that can be opened and played anywhere.
There it is.
So we'll just open
that up and quick look.
There we go.
See, and we have our QuickTime movie.
So if we could go back to the slides,
please.
Thank you.
So just to do a quick review
of some of the APIs that you've
seen kind of formally declared
as they are on the headers,
I'll just go through some of
the APIs that you will almost
always use if you're building
a QTKit capture application.
So first we have QTCaptureSession,
which is the class that you
will always create because it's
the class that needs to mediate
between the inputs and the outputs.
And the methods you will most commonly
use are addInput and addOutput.
And these methods optionally return an
NSError if there was a problem doing it.
Also,
what you need to do with the session
is once you have everything set up,
you need to start it running to
tell it to actually grab that media
data and send it to the outputs.
And that's done with
the startRunning method.
And then when you're done with it,
when you don't wanna use the bus and
use all that bandwidth and that memory,
you can say stop running after that.
When you're capturing from devices,
which in this case will be every case,
you will always interact with
the QTCaptureDevice class.
And this is the class whose instances,
each instance of this class represents
a single device on the system.
In all the demos that I showed you,
I showed you the very simple case
of looking for a QT capture device,
which is to ask the system
for its default input device
of a certain media type.
And I showed you video devices.
You can also get the
default audio device,
for example,
which is the device that the user has
selected in the sound preference pane.
But your application,
lots of applications probably
want to do something a little
more complex than that.
For example,
maybe they want to have a pop-up
menu that shows a list of devices
from which the user can pick,
so they can actually decide
which device connected to use.
And QT capture device exposes that
very simply by using an NSArray.
So there's this input devices with
media type method that returns
an array of all of the devices
that media type on your system.
There are various bits of information
you can get about QT Capture Device.
A pretty simple example is you
can get a localized name for it
so you can display it in your UI.
And finally,
something you always need to do with
a QT Capture Device before you use
it is you need to open it to tell the
device system that you're using it,
and you need to close it again
when you're done with it.
QDCaptureDevice also exposes
a bit of information about its
current state on the system.
So the class exposes two
notifications that tell you
when devices appear and go away,
because the user can plug them
in and unplug them at any time.
And there are also a few methods
on the device itself where you
can find out if it's connected.
And for certain devices,
if an application is hogging it,
if it can't be used by your application,
it happens to be the case that
the vast majority of devices,
including all iSites
and all DV camcorders,
can be shared across multiple
applications at the same time.
So usually that's not gonna be a problem.
With QT Capture Device,
you're going to use the
QT Capture Device input class,
and that's just as simple as initializing
it with the QT Capture Device,
and that's pretty much all
you need to do with it.
On the output front,
if you're recording to
a QuickTime movie file,
you'll use the
QTCaptureMovieFileOutput class.
This class is actually a concrete
subclass of QTCaptureFileOutput,
which is a subclass of QTCaptureOutput.
So if you're poking through
the headers and you open up
QTCaptureMovieFileOutput.h
and you see that it's empty,
go look at QTCaptureFileOutput,
which will actually show you all
the methods that you need to call.
And the methods that you almost always
will use are RecordToOutputFileURL,
which specifies a recording destination.
And you will definitely want to
implement this delegate method
that calls you back when the file
is actually finished writing.
This class actually has
tons of other features,
including features that let you record
on exact frame and sample boundaries,
and you should definitely check it out.
It's a pretty powerful class.
Also, if you're interested in
getting raw video frames,
as I showed you earlier,
you can use QTCapture
decompressed video output.
And the key thing here is
implementing this delegate method,
which will call you every time
a new video frame comes in.
It will give you a CV image buffer
with which you can do as you please.
QTCaptureView is a wrapper around the
QTCaptureVideoPreviewOutput class.
Almost always if you're doing a
Cocoa or an AppKit application,
you're going to use
QTCaptureView and never really use
QTCaptureVideoPreviewOutput directly.
But that class is available
independent of a view in case you
need to do some custom previewing.
Also in general,
QTCaptureView is something you
never create programmatically.
You'll probably just drag it into
your nib file in Interface Builder,
so you generally don't need
to interact with it that much.
One thing that you do need
to do though is tell it which
capture session it's previewing,
and you do that with the
setCaptureSession method.
There are also a few attributes
it has that govern its appearance
such as the color that it fills
in behind the video and whether or
not it preserves the aspect of the
ratio of the video as it's playing.
A quick note on what devices
are supported by QTKit Capture.
[Transcript missing]
So to summarize a little bit,
and this pretty much parallels
Tim's half of the talk,
if you're doing real-time capture
from devices in your application,
use QTKit.
It's the preferred API from here on out,
and it really provides a lot of
power without a lot of complexity.
In order to do that,
you pretty much will always
rely on using QTCaptureSession,
QTCaptureInput, and QTCaptureOutput,
and you'll use those as building
blocks to assemble what your
application needs to do,
depending on its needs.
If you want more information,
first of all,
definitely just stay put in this room.
In the next session,
we're gonna dive into a lot more
detail about both the playback
and editing aspects of QTKit as
well as the capture aspect.
So we're gonna go into
some more advanced topics.
And we're also gonna talk
a bit about QuickTime 10.
And again, we strongly recommend that you
check out that lunchtime session.
It's sure to be very interesting.
It's always a very good speaker.
Also, if you have any questions or any
problems or specific concerns,
you just want to chat,
go meet us up in the lab later today and
we'll be around and we'll be there to
answer any questions that you might have.
And also,
if you want to get more information,
first talk to Alan Schaffer.
He knows everything about
everything or knows people who
know things about everything.
So he's the one to talk to.
And also, we have tons of documentation
and sample code and other
things on the developer page.
So just surf through there
and you'll see a lot more
examples of all of these things.